Make sure today's shower is under 7 minutes. Set a timer!
This helps conserve fresh water and reduces energy use by water treatment facilities.
Today, take public transportation or walk/bike instead of driving!
This helps reduce your greenhouse gas emissions, air pollution and helps you appreciate the area you live in :)
Wash your laundry with cold water today
This helps reduce your energy use since the water you use doesn't need to be heated first! In many places, electricity is still generated by burning fossil fuels, and even if your area has entirely renewable energy sources, most methods of energy generation have a substantial effect on local ecosystems, so reducing demand for electricity is good news!
Turn the shower off while lathering today 
This helps conserve fresh water and reduces energy use by water treatment facilities.
Bring a reusable water bottle with you today
This helps you avoid single use plastics (plastics that you only use once) reducing the amount of plastic in landfills and and reducing the use of oil (which is used to make plastics).
Avoid plastic cups/cutlery today. Bring a travel mug for your coffee!
This helps you avoid single use plastics (plastics that you only use once) reducing the amount of plastic in landfills and and reducing the use of oil (which is used to make plastics).
Try to pick up some litter while walking outside today
This is a nice way to make your area look better, and helps protect local wildlife from plastics and garbage.
Make sure that nothing you throw in the garbage today could be recycled
Recycling helps prevent the overuse of landfills and extraction of new resources.
Look into composting at home
Composting is a great way to make use of food scraps, which would otherwise end up in a landfill and release methane (a greenhouse gas 80 times more dangerous than carbon dioxide).
Carpool instead of driving alone today. Consider using a carpool app!
This helps reduce your greenhouse gas emissions, air pollution and helps you appreciate the area you live in :)
Drive the speed limit and accelerate gently to save gas (and money!)
This helps reduce your greenhouse gas emissions, air pollution and helps you appreciate the area you live in :)
Turn the heat down in your house and wear a sweater
This helps save energy if you have electric heat, or natural gas if you heat that way. Unless you have geothermal heating, heating your house has a noticable impact on the environment and keeping it a couple degrees cooler can make a huge difference!
Remember to turn lights off in rooms you aren't in!
This helps conserve electricitry, which is still often generated by burning fossil fuels. Even if your area has entirely renewable energy sources, most methods of energy generation have a substantial effect on local ecosystems, so reducing demand for electricity is good news!
Spin or hang dry your laundry today
Dryers are often the #1 use of electricity in a household! Avoiding them helps conserve electricitry, which is still often generated by burning fossil fuels. Even if your area has entirely renewable energy sources, most methods of energy generation have a substantial effect on local ecosystems, so reducing demand for electricity is good news!
Try to avoid eating meet (or at least beef) today
Farming animals (particularly larger animals like cattle) is incredibly water-intensive and produces a huge amount of methane and other greenhouse gases. Two issues in one if you avoid meat!
Do your best to eat everything you cook today. Don't make more than you can eat!
Food waste in a landfill often produces methane, a greenhouse gas 80 times more powerful than carbon dioxide! If you do have food waste, consider a compost!
Try to cook using local ingredients today
Using local ingredients supports smaller scale farming which is usually less water-intensive and also reduces the need to ship ingredients around the world to get to you. Plus, fresh food is so tasty!
Donate some old clothing today
Donating clothing is like recycling for clothes! Instead of old clothing ending up in a landfill and requiring tons of new resources to manufacture new ones for you, donating clothing only requires you to go drop it off :)
Research the environmental effects of a company you buy from regularly
Lots of companies we buy from all the time have some dark secrets, but some are also working really hard to help with environmental issues! Find out which your favourites are, and if you're unhappy with what you find, consider an alternative brand.
Research one environmental charity you could donate to
Not everyone has enough money to donate, but at the very least you can find out about an issue that needs help and possibly find a way to do something in your community (or home!) to help with the issue they care about.
Teach yourself about an environmental issue today, and how you can help prevent it
There are many issues that only exist because we don't know about them! Education is step 1 to fixing any problem, so go learn something new!
Bring reusable bags with you next time you shop (not just for groceries!)
Plastic bags are one of the worst examples of single-use plastics. They are a hazard to local wildlife, look horrible when stuck in trees and bushes, and most importantly, are totally unnecessary! Cloth bags are more durable, biodegradable and easy to use!
Consider buying LED lightbulbs to save energy. If you're feeling fancy, you can get colour-customizable lightbulbs!
LED lightbulbs use substantially less power than regular lightbulbs: up to 75% less!
Buy a french press or re-usable coffee filter instead of using a keurig or buying coffee in disposable cups
K-cups and coffee filters may have compostable versions now, but at the end of the day there is still a factory somewhere that has to make them! A re-usable filter or french press can save hundreds or thousands of k-cups and filters, and you'll never run out!
If you have leftovers, eat them now before they go bad!
Food waste in a landfill often produces methane, a greenhouse gas 80 times more powerful than carbon dioxide! If you do have food waste, consider a compost!
If something breaks, try to have it repaired instead of throwing it out
Repairing something avoids the need to manufacture and ship a new one all the way to you, and keeps things out of the landfill!
